atividades-32-33-34-35

Pd. 32
VOCABULARY
1. Zoltan decided on his career plan when he was in his first year of university, and amazingly, he followed it until he retired.
2. Rupert hopes to make a living doing freelance consulting.
3. My company has a training programme that offers career opportunities to students who have just graduated from university.
4. Helena was very happy with the bonus she got last month.
5. If you want to climb the career ladder, you have to be prepared to work very hard.
6. Dominic was very pleased when he earned his first commission.
7. Begonia is ready to make a career move, so she's applying for jobs with other companies.
8. Alicia did her best when she completed her job application.
9. Some companies help their employees take a career break by giving them a few months off without pay.
10. Pietro was 55 years old when he took early retirement.
11. Mei-Mei didn't follow the usual career path for the CEO of a marketing firm. She started out working as a primary-school teacher.
12. Sharon never felt happy working overtime.
13. Magnus earns €60K per year in his new accounting job. (The other option, "flexitime," doesn't fit grammatically.)
14. I wasn't surprised to hear that Dean got the sack, but I feel very sorry for him.

MODALS
A: Can I help you?  
B: Yes. My name's Heinz Wagner. I'm here to see Martina Lopez.  
A: She'll be right out. Would you like a cup of coffee or tea?  
B: No, thanks. But could you tell me where the men's room is, please?

A: My cousin could speak French and German by the time she was five, and now she can speak Russian and Greek as well.  
B: Do you think she would like to learn any more languages?

A: Would you like to ask any more questions about Fabian?  
B: Yes. Can he drive? Does he have a licence?  
A: I'm not sure. I could phone him and ask him.

Pg. 33
A.
1. Can I leave 			a) with someone right now.
2. Can I get him to 		b) her to call me back?
3. Can I leave 			g) a message, please?
4. He seems to be 		a) with someone right now.
5. Could I speak 		c) to Michael Sands, please?
6. Could you 			f) call you?
7. Could you ask 		e) him that I called?
8. Could you tell 		h) transfer me to the IT department, please?
	
B.
1. Could you tell me 		f) what it’s about?
2. Can I take 			b) a message?
3. I can transfer you 		g) to her voicemail.
4. I’ll 			h) put you through.
5. I’m afraid 			d) there’s no answer.
6. I’m sorry, there’s no 	c) answer.
7. Is this the 			i) marketing department?
8. Who’s 			e) calling, please?
9. This is 			a) Larissa Schulton speaking.

2. Companies
Espania-pharm today announced the opening of its new head office in Barcelona. The Spanish subsidiary (1) company's efforts to boost its market share paid off in the first quarter, as its turnover (2) was almost €15.6 million, leading to a net profit (3) of €8 million. The company has also doubled the size of its workforce (4) by hiring 50 new employees in the past four months. However, the company's share price (5) is unlikely to go up until investors feel confident that the company is strong. Espania-pharm is the subsidiary (6) of the global giant. The parent company (7), based in Stockholm, reported profits of €950 million in the first quarter.

Pg. 34
PRESENT SIMPLE AND PRESENT CONTINUOUS
I’m a trainee project manager and I love my job. I work for a well-known computer manufacturer, in the marketing department. Right now, we are developing an advertising campaign for our newest laptop computers. We are trying to find the best artist for our print advertisements, so this week I’m looking at samples of artists' work every day.

I feel proud to work for a big, well-known company. This week, I’m starting each day with a planning meeting that includes the CEO. He is very well known around the world, and my friends all think I’m lucky to work with someone famous.

SKILLS
1. Good morning, a) I’m Mieko Murata, Director of Marketing, NHHC Telecommunications.  
2. Today, b) I’m to talk about our new projects. First, b) I’ll give you some background information about the company.  
3. a) Next, I’ll talk about our marketing activities.  
4. b) Moving on now, I’ll discuss some case studies.  
5. a) Here’s some background information about the company and about what we’ve been doing in the past year.  
6. If there are no more questions about background, I’ll continue b) moving on now to our marketing activities - we’ve recently had a really big marketing event in Singapore.  
7. Thanks a) for coming to my talk. Are there any questions?

1. wholesaler | retailer | supplier | offer (odd one out - the others are types of sellers)  
2. return | discount | offer | bargain (odd one out - the others are actions or terms related to returning or reducing price; bargain is a deal)  
3. return | exchange | purchase | refund (odd one out - purchase is buying, others are returns/refunds)  
4. stock | sale | storage | sale (odd one out - others are related to inventory, sale is selling)  
5. dispatch | deliver | distribute | manufacture (odd one out - manufacture is making goods, others are about moving goods)

VOCABULARY
1. Offer
2. Bargain
3. refund
4. Sale
5. Manufacture
6. Interest-free credit

Pg. 35
MODALS
1. No music
2. Payment not necessary
3. Tennis shoes required
4. Respect our neighbours and play quietly
5. Park closes at 10 p.m.
6. Age 12 and over only